Obsessive-compulsive disorder, more commonly known as OCD, is a neuropsychiatric disorder associated with obsessions; recurrent impulses, unwanted or intrusive thoughts, and fear. 
This leads to compulsions where a diagnosed OCD person will do repetitive actions in response to an obsession. Doing so will lessen the unease the person feels, but failure to do so will increase their anxiety. 
Stein et al. (2019) Which led a lot of experts to believe that OCD is under the category of anxiety disorders, but OCD was given its own category after the publication of the fifth edition of the Diagnostic and 
Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders. Clair (2020) and Brock et al. (2024). With the confusion of the categorization of OCD, it’s a recurrent event where people are misdiagnosed so people are getting help for the 
wrong kind of mental condition, therefore not helping them as much. Brock et al. (2024) and Bains et al. (2023).

Alibudbud (2023) states that the WHO Special Initiative for Mental Health’s goal to make mental healthcare affordable was met with difficulties like the stigma mental health has in Filipinos, which led them away from 
professional help. The same author took note of the neglect the government made to Filipinos’ mental health by allotting only 5% of the healthcare budget for mental health financing when the Mental Health Act in 2018 was 
passed. In which Maravilla et al. (2021) concur by stating that the Philippine Mental Health Act was nothing more than just an act. Although the budgeting for mental health financing will improve in the future and 
psychiatric patients have rights that protect them, Lally et al.(2019). This is all for naught when stigma still exists about mental health. Maravilla et al. (2021) 

One of the many reasons that feed the stigma for mental health is the romanticization of mental disorders. According to Issaka (2024), this started as far back as traditional media like movies where mental illnesses 
are often portrayed incorrectly. Characters with mental illnesses are often shown to be more distinct from the norm, which furthers the gap between a ‘normal’ person and a person with mental disabilities when there 
shouldn’t be one in the first place. Other than that, mental illnesses are also frequently made light of. Things like normalizing the symptoms of a mental illness may result in people dismissing these serious symptoms as 
normal experiences. The stigma of mental health can be destroyed by bringing attention to mental health on social media and talking more about it. Be as it may, this resulted in the glamorization of it instead. For example, 
characters like Patrick Bateman, Joker, and Kabir Singh despite having obvious psychiatric conditions are idolized and envied in modern society. Ahuja and Fichadia (2024).

Avoiding Icarus is a 3D narrative simulation game for virtual reality with objectives that players must finish to advance the story. The objectives are shown as a list in the game, which is a main feature to show how people 
with obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD) will follow a routine or ritual to go about their day. The objectives in the list are chores, most of which will be done in a basic motion controls memory game with varying 
difficulties. This is to signify the compulsive need to keep things in order. Changing perspectives will frequently happen throughout the game with the aid of visual and auditory cues. According to Mate (2022), visual 
and auditory cues are often experienced by humans every day and it helps with perceiving the environment more accurately, based on the mentioned study. The focus on visual and auditory cues can help improve the 
immersive experience of the player, especially since the game platform is virtual reality.  In addition to this, Emmelkamp and Meyerbröker (2021) conducted a study about virtual reality therapy which was initially 
designed to treat phobias but has evolved for the use of numerous mental health disorders including obsessive-compulsive disorder. It was observed that patients had higher anxiety levels when they were asked to ‘touch’ 
different restrooms with varying degrees of cleanliness. The researchers aim to have the same effect the authors had on their patients, towards players in conducting the study, as it was deemed possible.

Games about mental health are pretty common in mainstream media, which often focus on player entertainment. One of these games, for example, is ‘Omori’; It has a unique fighting style, and the game depicts the 
main character’s mental condition in the form of enemies and a whole new different dimension which intrigued a lot of gamers. Although the portrayal of the main character’s mental condition erred some people as 
it was used to amp up the fear factor of the game, hence furthering the stigma about people with mental disorders. (Hightower 2024). As mentioned it intrigued a lot of the players, understandably so because players 
may not go for games that tackle on the rawness of a mental disorder because most players will find that nothing is entertaining about it. Which is exactly how Avoiding Icarus will be developed. Avoiding Icarus is a 
game centered around a person diagnosed with obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD). This study aims to bring insight about an unconventional mental illness in narrative game form with the player ‘living out’ the main 
character’s usual day. In addition to this, the study seeks to lessen the romanticization of mental illnesses and show exactly how severe it can affect a person and the people around them.

The game will have chores like folding laundry in a list form that players must finish to progress the story. Most of the gameplay will revolve around the list and will often utilize basic motion controls when doing 
the chores. If the player fails to do the chore perfectly and in time, the game will make them retry until they finish the chore perfectly to show the repetitive actions. For example, when folding laundry in Avoiding 
Icarus; the game will have the player place a garment in a specific area with an outline of that specific garment, the player has to lay the garment flat so that it fits the outline and so it has no wrinkles and after 
that the player will be briefly flashed with instructions to fold the garment in a specific step by step order. Failure to follow the step by step order will lead the player to redo the whole process from the start. 
This goes the same way for the rest of the tasks that the player will be given. Other than basic motion controls, there will be a section in the game where the player will actively avoid obstacles via body tracking. 
Additionally, skipping from chore 1 to chore 3 will be made impossible to emphasize the strict adherence to routines a person with OCD would have. Changes to the list can upset the character and if the player strays 
from the chore, the character will prompt the player to get back on track. Other than that Avoiding Icarus will contain cutscene graphics to put more focus on the difference of perspectives.

Avoiding Icarus will be developed in 3D using Unity in first-person and virtual reality (VR) to emphasize player immersion and make it feel like the player is moving around as the character. The game will be available 
on PC, and a device that can adequately handle 3D graphics is recommended to enjoy the game to its full extent alongside necessary output and input devices such as a virtual reality headset and controllers. 

General Objective
The study's main objective is to develop a 3D First-Person Simulation Game about Living with Obsessive-Compulsive Disorder named  "Avoiding Icarus" for virtual reality.

Specific Objectives
To develop an immersive virtual reality world in first-person 3D, to make the players feel like they are living out the character's life and experience firsthand the symptoms of obsessive-compulsive disorder. 
To portray OCD in a raw and down-to-earth form focusing on realistic and widely relatable scenarios to OCD-affected individuals and non-affected individuals alike, bringing the two closer through bridged experiences.

