1 = Ending

10 = Mistakes

100 = Melodies/Songs

1000 = Words

10000 = Steps


This is largely inspired by the story of Orpheus and Eurydice. This concept has been on my mind for a while now and it is a work in progress on Unity. I was able to expound on it more by doing this activity.

It's essentially a visual novel with a walking simulator that loops over and over. I'm sure were all familiar with the story of Orpheus and Eurydice; Eurydice dies and Orpheus comes to the underworld to get her back, but fails to do so because he turns around before Eurydice gets out of the underworld.

This is a rendition of it but I want to put more focus on the hardships that Orpheus went through, having to walk for hours, days, months, and even years according to some versions of the story. Players will take a total of 10,000 steps for the entire game, which would take around 2 hours with a slow pace. 1000 overall total words that the players will read and most of it is just Orpheus trying to talk to Eurydice.

To fill the silence, Orpheus a notable bard, would sing 100 songs and/or melodies. He'd sing to get rid of the doubts in his head that Eurydice is still behind him. Every time he turns around he'll always sing a mourning song for Eurydice using his lyre.

10 mistakes. So many retellings of their story says that Orpheus turns around because he hears Eurydice trip, turns around because he couldn't hear her steps, couldn't see her shadow, etc. In this game, Orpheus will make 10 mistakes. All for the same reason, his love for Eurydice. After all, to love is to look back. 

1 ending. No matter what. Eurydice will die. Even if the player chooses not to turn around when prompted, they will be forced to turn around. The player may be in control of the game but know that Orpheus' love for Eurydice will always conquer and he will turn around.

MAGIC MOMENT: Orpheus breaks the 4th wall and speaks to the player, begging them to stop playing the game, in turn stops Orpheus' suffering.
